add docs for exception enhancements (#1157)
kyverno/website: content/en/docs/Writing policies/exceptions.md

weight: 80
---

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
Policy exceptions are a **beta** feature and requires setting certain container flags to enable. It is not ready for production usage and there may be breaking changes. Normal semantic versioning and compatibility rules will not apply.

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: So we're proposing that Policy Exceptions will now graduate to stable? Is this backed up by an API change or is it still at beta? Has this discussion to stable been raised with the maintainers?

Author: I removed it because exceptions are enabled by default, and there would be no breaking changes.

---

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}

> Policy exceptions are a **beta** feature. It is not ready for production usage and there may be breaking changes. Normal semantic versioning and compatibility rules will not apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policy exceptions are a **beta** feature. Normal semantic versioning and compatibility rules will not apply.
```

            - resources:
                names: "?*"
```

## Pod Security Exemptions

Kyverno policies can be used to apply Pod Security Standards profiles and controls via the [validate.podSecurity](/docs/writing-policies/validate/#pod-security) subrule. However, there are cases where certain Pods need to be exempted from these policies. For example, a Pod may need to run as `root` or require privileged access. In such cases, a PolicyException can be used to define an exemption for the Pod through the `podSecurity{}` block. It can be used to define controls that are exempted from the policy.

> Given the following  policy that enforces the latest version of the Pod Security Standards restricted profile in a single rule across the entire cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the following policy that enforces the latest version of the Pod Security Standards restricted profile in a single rule across the entire cluster.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
kind: ClusterPolicy
metadata:
  name: psa
spec:
  background: true
  validationFailureAction: Enforce
  rules:
  - name: restricted
    match:
      any:
      - resources:
          kinds:
          - Pod
    validate:
      podSecurity:
        level: restricted
        version: latest
```

> There is a case where all Pods exist in the `delta` Namespace needs to run as a root. A PolicyException can be used to exempt all Pods whose namespace is `delta` from the policy by excluding the `runAsNonRoot` control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this use case, all Pods in the `delta` Namespace need to run as a root. A PolicyException can be used to exempt all Pods whose Namespace is `delta` from the policy by excluding the `runAsNonRoot` control.
```

  namespace: policy-exception-ns
spec:
  exceptions:
  - policyName: psa
    ruleNames:
    - restricted
  match:
    any:
    - resources:
        namespaces:
        - delta
  podSecurity:
    - controlName: "Running as Non-root"
```

The following Pod satisfies all controls in the restricted profile except the `Running as Non-root` control but it matches the exception. Hence, it will be successfully created.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx-pod
  namespace: delta
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    args:
    - sleep
    - 1d
    securityContext:
      seccompProfile:
        type: RuntimeDefault
      runAsNonRoot: false
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
      capabilities:
        drop:
        - ALL
```

PolicyExceptions `podSecurity{}` block has the same functionality as the [validate.podSecurity.exclude](/docs/writing-policies/validate/#exemptions) block in the policy itself. They can be used to exempt controls that can only be defined in the container level fields.

For example, the following PolicyException exempts the containers running either the `nginx` or `redis` image from following the Capabilities control.

> 

Reviewer: (Here and below) I know you wrote this before the blog, but I would recommend using the case I wrote about [here](https://kyverno.io/blog/2024/02/04/securing-services-meshes-easier-with-kyverno/#enhancements-in-112) to illustrate this functionality as it is so common.

Author: Done.
